In December 2022, Equinor, Golden State Wind, and Even Keel Energy (Invenergy) won the rights to develop offshore wind farms off the coast of San Luis Obispo County. The clean energy output could power 3.5 million homes, marking a significant step towards California’s carbon neutrality goals. It will also lead to the creation of a new economy around clean energy in the region. At the same time, the Central Coast stands to lose reliable, unionized fossil fuel jobs as the region shifts to a decarbonized energy supply. To this end, these three companies have committed $27 million for community benefits and an additional $66 million for local workforce and supply chain development. Community organizers are in need of up-to-date information to ensure that this funding benefits the maximum number of residents; that people from the most disadvantaged communities can access clean energy jobs; and that the new jobs provide great benefits. Estimates of where, how many, and what type of energy jobs will be gained and lost during this transition will inform these conversations and decisions. Using research from the 2035 Initiative and the UCSB Community Labor Project, we will use the National Renewable Energy Laboratory’s Jobs and Economic Development Impact model (JEDI) to estimate the economic impact of several clean energy transition scenarios. The outputs from JEDI, supplemented by local economic data, will be visualized in an interactive web map that users can navigate to understand the likely impacts of the clean energy transition across Ventura, Santa Barbara, and San Luis Obispo Counties. We aim to design our analysis for labor, indigenous, environmental, and community organizations to inform the conversation about offshore wind and other renewable energy jobs, to advocate with and on behalf of fossil fuel workers for a “just transition”, and to serve as a model for how research can support just transitions in energy communities across the United States.

<!--

**Here are some ideas to get you started:**

🙋‍♀️ A short introduction - what is your organization all about?
🌈 Contribution guidelines - how can the community get involved?
👩‍💻 Useful resources - where can the community find your docs? Is there anything else the community should know?
🍿 Fun facts - what does your team eat for breakfast?
🧙 Remember, you can do mighty things with the power of [Markdown](https://docs.github.com/github/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax)
-->
